# DL_Melanoma_Detection
Melanoma Detection in Deep Learning


# Project Name
> Outline a brief description of your project.


## Table of Contents
* [General Info](#general-information)
* [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
* [Conclusions](#conclusions)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

<!-- You can include any other section that is pertinent to your problem -->

## General Information

ISIC :- 
The International Skin Imaging Collaboration: Melanoma Project is an academia and industry partnership designed to facilitate the application of digital skin imaging to help reduce melanoma mortality. When recognized and treated in its earliest stages, melanoma is readily curable. Digital images of skin lesions can be used to educate professionals and the public in melanoma recognition as well as directly aid in the diagnosis of melanoma through teledermatology, clinical decision support, and automated diagnosis.


Skin Cancer :- 
Skin cancer is the most prevalent type of cancer. Melanoma, specifically, is responsible for 75% of skin cancer deaths, despite being the least common skin cancer. The American Cancer Society estimates over 100,000 new melanoma cases will be diagnosed in 2020. It's also expected that almost 7,000 people will die from the disease. As with other cancers, early and accurate detection—potentially aided by data science—can make treatment more effective.


Problem Statement :-

In this workshop , you’ll identify melanoma in images of skin lesions and you’ll use images within the same patient and determine which are likely to represent a melanoma. Using patient-level contextual information may help the development of image analysis tools, which could better support clinical dermatologists.


- What is the background of your project?

To build a Machine Learning model ( CNN based model) with dataset provided and model can accurately detect melanoma. Melanoma is a type of cancer that can be deadly if not detected early. It accounts for 75% of skin cancer deaths.


- What is the business probem that your project is trying to solve?

 A solution which can evaluate images and alert the dermatologists about the presence of melanoma has the potential to reduce a lot of manual effort needed in diagnosis.



- What is the dataset that is being used?

The dataset was generated by the International Skin Imaging Collaboration (ISIC)
and images are from the following sources: Hospital Clínic de Barcelona,
Medical University of Vienna, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Queensland, and the
University of Athens Medical School.

Total of 2239 files belonging to 9 classes in training folder.


## Conclusions

- Conclusion 1 from the analysis
  
  CNN based - Baseline model is not genralised , It suffers problem of  overfitting and there is oscillation in validation loss

- Conclusion 2 from the analysis

  CNN based model , Data Augmentation. Overfitting is rediced compared to model 1 

- Conclusion 3 from the analysis

  CNN based model , Data Augmentation & Class weights makes model generalise better , Validation loss is still high compared to model 1 
  
- Conclusion 4 from the analysis

  Resnet50 with Learning rate decay is used , Much better to previous models less in overfitting. Less difference in training and validation loss 


- Conclusion 5 from the analysis

  Resnet50 with Learning rate decay is used & data augmentaion ( Oversampling to mitigate class imbalance ) is implemented. its better than model 1,model2 and model3 interms of overfitting 
  
  
<!-- You don't have to answer all the questions - just the ones relevant to your project. -->


## Technologies Used ( Python Libraries )

tensorflow==1.2.0
keras
pandas
glob
skimage
augmenter
numpy
matplotlib

<!-- As the libraries versions keep on changing, it is recommended to mention the version of library used in this project -->

## Acknowledgements

Give credit here.

- References - The ISIC 2020 Challenge Dataset https://doi.org/10.34970/2020-ds01 (c) by ISDIS, 2020
- This project was based on kaggle dataset and (https://www.kaggle.com/code/usharengaraju/devfest2020identifyingmelanomainlesionimages/data).


## Contact
praveengovi@gmail.com feel free to contact me!

